DNA N4-methylcytosine (4mC) as one kind of epigenetic modification of DNA has a critical role which alters genetic performance such as protein interactions, conformation, stability in DNA as well as the regulation of gene expression same cell developmental and genomic imprinting. It simply plays a crucial role in restriction-modification system. Here I uploaded eight publicly available benchmark datasets named Caenorhabditis elegans (C.elegans), Drosophila melanogaster (D.melanogaster), Arabidopsis thaliana (A.thaliana), Escherichia coli (E.coli), Geoalkalibacter subterraneus (G.subterraneus), Geobacter pickeringii (G.pickeringi), Fragaria vesca (F. vesca), and Rosa chinensis (R. chinensis).

The main objectives of this research works are:

1. To develop a grid search-based Weighted Average Ensemble (WAE) system for identifying DNA N4 – Methylcytosine where learned information is transmitted along from a layer to the next.

    `The model applies multi-configuration 1D CNN to perform the ensemble method in each layer to improve prediction efficiency and find the best results, in addition       to transferring learning knowledge from one layer to another.

     A grid search-based Weighted Average Ensemble (WAE) technique has been applied to find the optimal accuracy at each layer.

2. To train the model with eight large publicly accessible datasets and compare it's performance with the existing models.

Methodology: Our proposed method comprises three main phases. The first step is to generate or represent discriminative features; the second step is to split the entire dataset into training and testing sets; and the third step is to classify the 4mC sites using a grid search based weighted average ensemble (WAE) multilayer technique based on the first stage's generated features. In the first instance of feature representation, we used the K-mer approach to break the genomic sequence into fixed-length words (3-mer). Following that, we converted each K-mer word into a 100-dimensional vector format in attempt to acquire discriminating information between the two classes. We used a word embedding approach known as word to vector (word2vec) to transfer the sequences into vectors form. The output vector obtained from Word2Vec is then divided into multiple proportions using the "train-test-split" method. We have split the dataset into five partitions: 50: 50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, and 90:10. In the final step, the weighted average ensemble technique with the same basic learning model is adopted on the training and testing set to identify 4mC and minimize generalization error. It combines the predictions from multiple models, where the contribution of each model is weighted proportionally to its capability or skill. The basic learning model in this study is one-dimensional convolutional neural network (1D CNN) model with numerous settings such as the number of hidden layers, number of nodes in the layers and the weight value. This model utilizes a stratified prediction technique. Based on the same training dataset, the three models at each level categorize the same test set. After each layer's classification is complete, the correctly classified data is added to the pre-training data and compared with the predefined target values in the original data set and inserted into the next layer. In the next iteration, the misclassified data is used as new test data. This process continues until all models have improved performance (TP and TN = 0). But a complicated aspect of using weighted average ensemble is choosing the relative weights for each ensemble member to achieve the desired accuracy in each class. At each level, a grid search method is used to find the optimal weights for the model, resulting in more "accurate" predictions. The whole approach is called grid search-based multilayer dynamic system (GS-MLDS).


